---
layout: post
title: Introducing Nami
---

## Introduction

When events occur in batches, a wave of webhooks may overwhelm consumers, resulting in dropped data. Always-on systems must be provisioned to handle worst-case scenarios, however, this is inefficient as these resources will be idling most of the time. What is needed is an efficient and easily deployable architecture for consuming webhooks at scale.

Nami provides a simple interface for deploying this type of architecture to consume webhooks. It relies on the elasticity of serverless systems to handle bursty webhook traffic. The framework abstracts away the complexities of cloud infrastructure and effort required to deploy, configure, and choreograph all of the services that make up the Nami framework.

## Event-driven architecture

Webhooks represent an event-driven approach to development. They allow applications to take in data about events as they happen, trading control of data flow for event-driven updateand asynchronicity. Nami’s event-driven architecture embraces this trade-off.

Since the introduction of web communication protocols like HTTP in the 1980s, the dominant paradigm for communication between systems is a client-server request-driven architecture where a client, or many clients, make a request to a server. The client’s request may either be getting information from the server, or updating information on the server. In either case, the server returns a response acknowledging the request, optionally including data that the client requested. This request-response process is a synchronous method of communication in that the client must wait for the server to return a response before continuing execution.

In an event-driven architecture (EDA), events represent changes in state that have already occurred. “An event is an object or message that indicates something has happened;” it holds information about that happening, but does not contain any logic itself (1). Rather than requesting for work to be done, the consumer responds to events that are announced after they have occurred. The EDA paradigm is asynchronous in that a caller is never sitting idle, waiting for a response to be returned. In an asynchronous, event-driven model, the dichotomy of client and server loses the meaning it has in the request-driven context, so we can instead use terms such as event producer (server sending the event notification) and event consumer (server receiving the event notification).
